I banish yen and I don't say time
stories and desire for sharing my
channel remember I had said in one of
his videos once before and along with
his kind of community video to one of
the things that stood with me was
basically that this it's a good sign of
a person when they go hours and hours
and hours without eating food because
you know it's got animal products in it
and they don't want to break their kind
of the vegan streak for the one to the a
better phrase but they don't want to
break being vegan and always let said
you know you could go to a stand no you
could easily just walk up to that stall
by the cake the cupcake the I even food
with the animal products in it and no
one would say anything to his own you
know what's your choice or whatever but
a three sign of an ethical person when
they can go hungry to avoid that no they
can just go hungry for an extra couple
of hours before they get home or before
they come into contact with a vegan III
or whatever its sign of a great person
when the vast majority of people would
just say look I'm hungry so I'm going to
eat it and our heart wouldn't really be
in veganism if they were vegan at the
time and I would consider myself that
person would go hungry for an extra few
hours just to avoid an animal products I
would and I further are vegans big-name
vegans on YouTube who said that they
just ease they'd eat the food with
animal products and a no problem they
wouldn't really care that stretch out to
do that you know vegan cheese there was
one of them he was actually on his you
know live stream but I easily when he
said it every community is drawn to
people in leadership and in positions of
power but what you also have to realize
is that the people who put these people
in the positions of power are the same
people that can remove them and
implement new leaders and new people in
those positions I don't know I you know
I think one of the questions is to be at
least is what really is this permanent
vacation which is such a great catch
phrase that I Zell created I think
genius but i do question it to what I
think he should do which I think would
be great is I think he should create
some sort of
meetup where he goes and he says hey you
know we're gonna sit down and we're
gonna I want to see really who is as
passionate as me it's hard to tell on
you too aah buh new chin probably the
things that we disagree with about the
most are like nature as a baseline I
would say that's probably one that we
kind of have a bit of and I think it's
because you're more into conservation
like I was reading a little bit of Tom
Regan the other day and I can see how um
that that it makes it a little bit more
of a challenge if you're really into
conservation like especially because of
the talking that you've done about
hunting and everything like that and I
totally understand where you're coming
from I just happen to disagree a bed
like I I feel like there's often
solutions that maybe don't involve you
know killing animals and things like
that well justjust to start with so
nature's basements that's a huge topic
so I myself have never used the phrase
nature as a baseline I'm not objecting
to it by just it's fine totally i'm not
i'm not offended to have that attribute
to me but it says it slightly different
than what my approach actually is are
you familiar with the currently somewhat
popular influential work by will kim
laka a zoo zool palace or zoo palace or
zillow paulus however you want to
pronounce it you heard about this book
well it's it's a very strange thing that
I mean when you have a book like that
written by academics and they're both
believe both authors are career
professors negatives will come look at
definitely as I've had a couple e-mails
back and forth him he's a Queen's he's
Canadian talent or he's it he's at a
Canadian university I don't know if he's
born and raised here um that's probably
less influential than my videos on
YouTube and I I I say that partly
because I used to work in academic
nonfiction publishing and if we if we
had a book that sold 500 copies in one
year that's a smash hit and and many of
those copies don't get read many of them
go into academic libraries and archives
or someone buys them and it sits in
their office you know no offense that's
the nature of academic nonfiction
publishing and I always thought so when
I worked in that area of publishing I
assume that the people doing picture
books sold more copies
coffee table books books a lot of
photographs nope for up 44 heavily
illustrated books they just use the term
photo books industry 300 copies is
considered a smack shame on suppose is
even though of course they're more
expensive there are a couple hundred
dollars those the sociable yeah I don't
know if you've ever had to print things
for props but really I did a lot of
assistive working so they would always
get like you know make sure that I get
credit for my work and everything that's
why they make us fall by their books of
them right well and also I mean one of
things I pointed it before my youtube
channel is that they go to conferences
and then they're kind of lucky if you
know 50 p will be fabulous if they had
50 people here they're paper at a
conference that be a great conference
more likely to be 30 and 15 of the
people are there because their boyfriend
or girlfriend brought them you don't
mean like Oh to the 30 people not
everyone wants to hear it and so I mean
I've I've been like that when I was
married I bring my wife to some
conference on Buddhism she's got to sit
there and listen to it I'm you know I'm
understanding what's going on but you
know so chewy uh yeah so Kim Luca has
this book called zoo opolis or if you
want to be really correct so zillow
Paulus um you know and in that book he
kind of leaves the issue of wild animals
last and least and it so there are many
many things I disagree with in the book
there are many things I think are
hilariously wrong and misguided but one
of the first things I thought when
looking at the table of contents was for
me this book I would start by turning it
upside down if I were writing this book
I'd start with the question of the
relationship to human beings and wild
animals and looking forward in the 21st
century among other things I think
that's very fundamentally different
today than it was a hundred years ago or
a thousand years ago and I feel that way
generally about veganism we need to
focus on the Futurity of the concept and
of course for me i'm a former scholar of
buddhism and i'm here in china i mean
one of the cultures that she has a
pretty deep and ancient and ongoing
cultural tradition of some kind of
vegetarianism / veganism but
nevertheless a she was just writing an
essay in chinese and probably going to
perform on youtube
where I say no actually really what
we're doing Tina has no connection to
that kind of feudal and magical and
supernatural thinking about
vegetarianism or have you um so you know
I do i do put emphasis on it I do think
it's it's tremendously important i think
it's the way to approach the problems
we're thinking socially if we think
about how our society operates in the
future a put great emphasis the relay
should be human beings and animals and
the the primacy of that concept makes it
much easier for me to deal with concepts
that for example for will kill Luca are
deeply troubling so we'll chemica he
starts with domesticated pets which many
vegans do they start with this idea you
love your pets how should we treat our
pets and he comes up with all kinds of
rights and responsibilities and
obligations towards pets and you know a
lot of vegans get bogged down in this
well if your dog has a broken leg and
has the flu do you have the right to
kill it or not you know i'm currently
you know what currently under worley you
know if the treatment is too expensive
and families where they'll just kill the
dog or the horse or whatever it is kept
as a pet and so you know is sort of
whatever let's spend 200 pages thinking
about in detail well what should be the
legal guidelines for the right to you
know give your pet treatment or you know
should the government pay for your dog
to have access to medical care if the
families okay fine so we have all these
details and then then we have a major
moral quandary what we deal with
something as ridiculous as rats so we'll
we'll kimika says that rat should have
the rights of citizens that you do not
have the right to kill rats that rats
live in a city he uses the term denizens
not citizens doctor misrepresented and
now we start drawing up the legal rights
for rats now you you and I both come
from Canada we've both lived in we've
both lived in green producing parts of
Canada I think you guys still farm some
grain and in a breath do you know any
any grain farm in Alberta that would
even have the option of not killing rats
um I've lived in cities in the tropics
uh in Taiwan was especially striking if
if you didn't kill rats and cockroaches
the city would cease to be inhabited by
human beings know what I mean and this
is kind of brutal thing but this is that
the train of thought that starts with
establishing a bill of rights for
domesticated animals
and then proceeds through I think he
uses terms like liminal animals but you
know animals that are neither wild nor
feral the things like rats that live in
the city and then finally as a kind of
footnote we get out to to the wilderness
so it's true my approach is really the
exact opposite of that and in as much as
that's that's currently a somewhat
famous book that contrast is probably
worth talking about I do not use terms
like nature's of baseline um I can say
more about rats but ok but just to
finish this point I well actually okay
the one of the things do brats is this
is also why it's so useful I put
emphasis on things like bears I think in
Alberta also you have bears come into
the city I don't think I don't think
bears have any rights in the city on the
grass of any rights in city I think
bearers and rats together should live in
the forest and should have relatively
little engagement with human beings
they'll have some but you know that's
that's it so if a bear comes into the
city I think our responsibility is to
try to remove it without harming at you
know to tranquilize it and put in the
forest but the brutal reality in Canada
is very often we kill the Bears and I
would say the same with rats or
squirrels that ideally we would be able
to trap them and put them somewhere in
the wild where they live without human
beings so for me that whole paradigm is
very very simple now is is nature
doesn't eat you have any kind of
symbolic or transcendental significance
for me I feel the answer is no you may
perceive me differently uh I think that
you know I would compare it to raising
children and then your children having
self-reliance ideally one day your
children do not need your involvement in
their lives maybe you can still talk and
meet for coffee or something that maybe
they can benefit from your with stuff
it's upset but there's some point at
which ideally they're out on their own
taking their own rescue making decisions
the bear in the forest is in that sense
self-reliant and I think that also leads
us to a bunch of you know pretty
pragmatic conclusions that you know out
of a given group of bears out of a group
of 20 or 30 that ideally we as humans we
don't have to decide which bears live in
which bears die when we're deeply
involved with bears whether they're in a
zoo or some kind of special conservation
space you may have a situation where the
Bears get sick and then you have to
choose okay which bears are we going to
quarantine and then you are deciding
which bears
I mean life is full of those
contradictions but for me again it's not
that you know wilderness red in tooth
and Fang is an ideal that I want to
glamorize but i think that the point is
okay what what is it we're aiming for
him for a situation where the Bears
themselves in effect decide who lives
and who dies or decide a strong word
they determine which bears are going to
live in which bears are going to die and
we hopefully have have relatively little
to do with it so that's that's
wilderness in my encapsulation
wilderness is the point which humans are
no you're making those decisions
although as you know my videos I include
lots of exceptions to the rule and
certainly something like a plague
breaking out or a local population
collapsing or a factory poisons the
river and now all of a sudden you have
to evacuate the bears because the Bears
are going to eat the fish and the fish
are toxic blah blah blah there are all
kinds of situations that are exceptions
to the rules but yeah to me that's all
the witnesses okay yeah because i think
that when we start looking at the future
future further on we're going to have
more problems like this especially as
wildlife you know wild habitat is
destroyed and everything like that um
i'm curious what you think about animals
suffering too because we've had that
discussion with you know the Lions in
the zoo and everything like that they do
live longer um and as we like right now
we don't know what the Lions want but i
do think as neuroscience progresses and
things like that we're gonna understand
better weather animals care about their
suffering and things like that and
whether in the future we want to do
anything to intervene to prevent animal
suffering to maybe you know even perhaps
changing the paradigm like I mean this
is talking hundreds of years in the
future I don't know if you're familiar
with the ideas of David Pierce but um so
he's a kind of a vegan philosopher but
he's a futurist and his ideas eventually
we are going to be trying to prevent
animal suffering I mean we're this could
be thousands of years in the future but
as we do develop you know artificial
meat and things like that we could have
lions eating that say instead of um
other animals like I don't know I mean
it's probably not pragmatic of us maybe
to be thinking about this right now but
I do think it's good to to at least
philosophize about it a bit just to
think about because I think even within
the next 15 years it's going to be an
issue with domesticated cats
so I'm just curious what you think about
that well I say there's a lot of the bad
news for human beings is good news for
for wild animals Japan is one of the
most densely populated most economically
advanced countries in the world I dare
say Japan is much more advanced than
Canada in terms of just raw economic
facts Japan's countryside is empty and
getting emptier Japan has more empty
land than ever before and this is partly
because what used to be important forms
of Agriculture has ceased to be
profitable Japan is actually now in a
situation where they can very easily
expand the amount of force they have
which nobody saw coming let me know in
terms of future Esther people make
predictions nobody thought oh you know
Japan the way we thought Japan skaters
that would be overpopulated but know
when you go out to most rural areas in
japan now there are just some elderly
people living there they don't here in
China we have a pattern where many of
the rural villages are elderly people
with young children because the parents
leave the children in the village but in
Japan you don't even get that you get
some elderly people and then maybe a few
poor immigrants from the Philippines or
Cambodia or something who are doing a
few jobs at the last you know a Grigori
all goods processing milburn heavy so I
just say um something no I find that
terrifying like in terms of my
background in political science and
economics I actually think this is
deeply problematic and I by the way and
tend towards more of a deep ecology
almost sort of idea like I see a lot of
ideas that you present almost that seem
to be I don't know a bit more like that
i don't know that's been kind of my
impression a little bit i mean I'm not
saying you're Ted Kaczynski or anything
I just see a little bit more of that and
and when you do look at the world
worldwide like you look at Latin America
everyone is moving to the cities you're
absolutely right that has been the
pattern that we've been observing
certainly in developing nations so and
even here in Canada you see you a rural
area shrinking and those kind of dying
small rural centers do you have more to
say we never get back to nature to pay
five I would get leaf it yeah I I think
it's more I'm just for everything I do
notice that sometimes people do use this
idea that the natural is the superior
that you because you
have discussed this before that you know
the life of a dog should be the life of
a dog in the wild kind of idea and that
i'm not sure about because i think just
like us i do think that animals have a
right if they would rather and this is
again not something that we're going to
be facing within the next decade or so
it's going to take you no time and
neuroscience to understand but once we
do know what what animals really do
prefer i think that we need to make
allowances for them to have that i mean
i don't have pets i'm not interested in
having pest but if a domesticated dog is
happier than a you know that i think
that should be their decision and that's
something that even is an animal i'm not
you know when it comes to animal rights
i'm not saying that you know rats have
the right to go to Harvard is you were
discussing earlier with it with the
human rights for rats or whatever but
you know like I'm not saying that but I
do think that there should be if a
creature is able to communicate that
then they should have that right yeah so
you just cuz it's hilarious i'll mention
too that book zuo plus it suggests that
humans have an unnatural fear of
creatures such as rats and snakes
because religious traditions like the
Christian Bible have prejudiced us
against rats and snake there we Africa
with black mamba some things like that
you know you're gonna find we have a
genuine reason to be afraid of like [ __ ]
no but therefore therefore the
government has an obligation to carry
out public education campaigns to try to
reverse the brainwashing the influence
of he's real testament so that will all
be more accepting of rats and snakes and
this is the argument so these are my
these are PhD wielding academic leaders
of vegan opinion so this is my
competition okay I mean and look that
will become more realistic once we say
we were to eliminate animals for
agricultural use and that would reduce
the amount of grain say because you were
discussing earlier you know with the
amount of grain that we need to store
and things like that we might be able to
kill fewer rats like there are there is
that possibility as well but but grain
farming I unless I mean
yeah yeah I don't know some sort of
amazing technology that would prevent
rats from unless you're gonna start
teleporting rats I mean it's it's pretty
tough but sure I still in principle
there is there something no but still in
print look I tell you the irony is I
have looked into but I have locked it
looked into nonviolent ways to trap rats
on a farm because I was interested in it
and I've also talked other farmers about
the methods they use there are things
you can do to genuinely reduce the
number of rats you're killing so I had
their eyes they're very technical i
won't i won't get into it but you can
you can set up certain types of traps
that use a tube and the rats go in the
tube and then they're putting a bucket
and then you can take the bucket and
dump it in the forest or whatever you
you can do some things uh yeah people
talking about that too like colleen
patrick-goudreau my dad once tried to
remove a skunk you mainly from our house
and that the skunk did get let loose
humanely but everyone else was kind of
sorry couldn't smell it for months after
look so coming Kevin made your point
about about you know nature and the
wilderness and so on um so know what I
disagree with I do not think the issue
is comfort I do not think the issue is
the animals happiness if I have to state
it in rights language I very rarely use
use the term I'd early release word
rights I think the only right animals
have is to their own habitat or you
could say to their own domain now a
penguin you may be able to you're
suggesting through scientific testing
through you know cognitive measurements
what have you that you can tell whether
a penguin is happier let's say in a room
temperature or swimming pool kind of
situation then it would be in Antarctica
now that's quite possible and many
animals are happier when they're not in
their natural habitat because their
natural habitat is too cold or too hot
or they're there in misery all the time
when it's really that cold or what have
you there struggling with the cold I
nevertheless do not believe we have any
mandate as human beings to provide
penguins with a warmer swimming pool
that make them more comfortable I think
on the one hand we have a we have a
responsibility which is tremendously
difficult to live up to to try to
actually preserve their habitat intact
you know like not to let you know
Antarctica get ruined Canadian Arctic or
you know we're talking about polar bears
would have you so they actually have
but you know a domain to live in
everyone have that to live in and then
in those situations where we have to
rescue them or shelter them we try to
approximate their habitat so you've
probably seen zoos trying to you know
I've used these examples before if
there's an oil spill and we have to
temporarily housed some penguins for six
months well the oil dissipates from the
waters they used to live in I would try
to give them water just as cold as what
they were used to you try to simulate
that and you try to give them the same
kind of food they would eat in the wild
too so no for me the only right they
have is to habitat and then the ideal
role for human beings is ultimately
wildlife management because ultimately
we have to tend the boundaries and we
have to protect them against
exploitation by the human beings this is
the ultimate threat to all up all animal
life you know in the little bits and
pieces of wilderness that are left you
know I mean here in China if the
government doesn't stop human beings
from killing and eating animals than the
whole they'll all disappear and they if
we also have other humans recording down
trees I remember there was a report
that's on cbc radio so it may not be
true but there was a conservation
officer complaining that their
number-one expenditure was buying new
locks because all the locks they put up
on the roads to stop people from going
in and illegally logging the types of
guys have going in illegally log have
shotguns or rifles and they can shoot
the locks so now I obviously this may
have been an exaggeration I don't know
how much yeah bc didn't know these these
might be very expensive locks that's
what you're forgetting i don't know but
anyway he was it was the fact that
someone said it on cbc radio doesn't
mean it's true but immediately with that
you get exactly the image which is you
know see you got these conservation
officers trying to just lock barriers on
the road but if you don't actually have
men with guns preventing other men with
you know the tools needed to cut down
the trees from going cutting the trees
and these things disappear so yeah
that's that's my view yeah our first
obligation is to remove the unnecessary
suffering of animals that we impose on
them for our own pleasure so I subscribe
to kind of a negative utilitarianism
then you know no matter how happy
something might make one group of people
if if it is creating if it's
contributing to the suffering of another
than it doesn't really you can't you
can't justify that so whether people if
people are made happy by consuming
animals that does not justify the misery
and suffering of you know trillions of
animals so that's I think that's our
first concern not obviously not that we
don't need to be eliminating the
suffering of wild animals at this point
although it is something that does
concern me and I would say that I I do
believe that if in the future if we have
the capacity to remove that suffering
that it would be in some ways an
obligation depends on the situation I
suppose but well you know most of the
big bear is we have in canon but you
know engaging cannibalism bears eat
other bears dogs eat other dogs I don't
think it's a human mandate to prevent
one dog for meeting another dog or to
prevent one bears me but and you can
yeah I know this is gonna sound insane
but I do think in the future that that
will be something that we will have to
think about more and I do think it will
become more of an obligation i agree
with you right now it isn't but well me
to me so to me that is the difference
between the wilderness in a zoo if you
have bears that are in a zoo then you
prevent one bear for meeting the other
but if bears are in their own domain are
in their own habitat then i think though
the whole point is that you do you let
the Bears sorta for themselves and bears
will kill and eat other bears and dogs
will kill any other dogs and sometimes
the bears eat the dogs and so on you do
kind of have nature as a baseline
because you're your king that the way
things are in nature is the way things
ought to be um no I'm saying that that
there are limits to human intervention
so and ya know yeah that's going to
change I think that we are we're rapidly
moving towards a different sort of
environment I mean again this is why my
channels mod vegan it's IM really
interested in modern future stuff
because i think that that's what
veganism is partly about like we're
moving towards a future that is not
going to be able to be based on that for
environmental reasons for all sorts of
things but um I do think we're going to
have more control over our environment
you know in five years we may have
autonomous cars everywhere which is
crazy I mean when we were kids that was
just a pipe dream and obviously it's
strange that it's happening so quickly
but it is you know
I think though part of the errors you
know there's another use of the word
nature which is the uses in human nature
for me part of the point is not to
impose on a dog human nature not to
impose an A Bear human nature and of
course another example is not to impose
on a horse human nature so I mean a
while the lives of wild horses are so
totally different from domesticated
horses but I think would be wrong to
intervene and impose human social norms
on a herd of wild horses that do compete
and fight a little bit you know they
fight overestimate what have you I mean
ethical norms I suppose this week saying
any any human norms I wouldn't I'm you
know for bears it is normal for them to
kill each other payers and it's
obviously it's revolting human beings
and you know but they have this whole
social structure that's built around
that and you know that that's bear
nature that's not human nature yeah true
but of course you know you've got the
mother bears that do spend a great deal
of their time trying to protect their
cubs with their own lives against that
sort of thing so you have kind of a it's
also a gender and sex problem but I
think that even within the bear
community that's kind of a but um yeah I
do think that we will be thinking about
the again with neuroscience and things
like that I think we're gonna be able to
understand better what what will make
bears happy like is an adult male bear
gonna be happy as long as he has a food
source he may not want to be eating bear
cubs you know like there's it may and
there may be ways to deal with that and
again this is very future I realize it
sounds very crazy but it's I think you
know 50 years I'll admit that I'll admit
that it sounds crazy over does I don't I
realized by that but I do think
especially with flu I mean the example
of bears is a great one because that's a
smaller population we have more control
over it we do track their populations so
that is I wouldn't be surprised within
50 years if that's something we're
really seriously considering especially
with animals that are more endangered
and things like that so well I do think
that habitat uh management involves you
know keeping track of how much food is
available for the different species and
making sure species don't go extinct you
know locally and then when they do go
extinct locally you have to cope by
trying to reintroduce missing species we
know that goes on that's kind of the
normal
of national parks already so in that
sense I don't think I need to appeal to
a future ideal i think that's already
what people do naturally I sorry
naturally being a poor choice of words
that's what governments tend to do
bureaucratically without too much
lecturing from vegans but I mean in
terms of the difference between nature
and nurture you know very most people
have seen an elephant that as tusks and
they've seen an elephant with no tasks
very few people ever looked at
photographs of what cutting off a live
elephant tusk is like eyes are your
wincing I don't know if you it's really
horrifying have you okay okay but as
mentioned like our own like our own
teeth you know there's there's red
living tissue going throughout the
length of it and you know it's obviously
it's saturated with blood and I've it is
a living part of the animal so I mean
the things that are taken for granted
whether it's the castration of a dog or
you know right you can documentaries and
things like that now well let's say
whether it's whether it's taking the
taking the testicles off a bowl or
taking the testicles of a dog or taking
the tusks of an elephant you know the
the changes were making to animals
physically and behaviorally and mentally
are pretty extreme a friend of mine read
a study I never read it about the
difference in intelligence and behavior
between domesticated yaks and wild yaks
now today we have no example of a wild
cow the Oryx is the wild ancestor of the
cow that really lived in the forest so
again to me this is not ideal izing
nature to say well we can look at a wild
yak and we can look at a yak that's you
know domesticated and it's in many ways
'verily they've actually lost their
intelligence in some quantifiable way
and I don't know maybe you can look at
faro Lee acts and see if they manage to
recover with a few generations that
Adele uh but yeah like cows any any
domesticated animal we have now I mean
they're there many many orders of
magnitude larger than they would have
been in in the wild you know you've got
you've got cows that can no longer even
breed naturally then that's something
that's only happened within the last 50
years or so we do both those teams we
also breed animals that are much smaller
than there will be the one we do it all
yeah and that's going to be a challenge
in the future like what do we do do we
manipulate them to go back to their
original DNA structure like because
those things lik with crisper we can
edit DNA we could say oh you know we're
gonna so that's about it oh no Berta you
guys know you well you know that that's
that's happened to some extent with the
the bison bison you'll always see
confusing reports about how extinct
bison are and it's because it has to do
with how you define bison if you define
bison as having zero percent cow DNA you
know zero percent European cow
intermixture as ever call there is one
island in Alberta it's an island in a
river which is the last place where you
have some pure bred bison and the reason
being that the the vast majority of
bison were infected with tuberculosis
and still are so it's actually been part
of a human struggle to eliminate
tuberculosis has involved the final
stages eliminate the bison burger people
very people know that although it's not
it's not hard time yeah so you know now
different people have attempted to make
pseudo bison by taking different cross
breeds of bison and cattle and choosing
the ones that have the traits that
resemble tizen but that have the
resistance tuberculosis or at least that
don't have tuberculosis or whatever it
is so humans have played some bizarre
games of that kind already um yeah I can
only be excused as wanting to preserve
the variety of nature it's not that
bison are asking for this like they're
not saying that they want you know to
sure to have their lineage revived but
well I think I think that's right i
think that's both the tragedy in the
triumph the 21st century's that we move
into a period where increasingly we
relate to nature not at something wild
but as a museum as a museum exhibit and
why do you work Dodos and things like
that passenger pigeons we have that
capacity in almost sure to be able to do
that but again its your right like it
are we just going to create a living zoo
that's a very important moral and
ethical question you know i mean you
know I I can say you know there's a
sense in which wouldn't it be nice if
your children can see what a real bison
looks like I'm not such a jerk to say no
this is something inherently evil you
know or any of the species that are
currently endangered around the world
I that that quest to try to preserve
things at least in a museum capacity I
can relate to I mean in Canada were
spoiled in some ways you know I just did
a book review of that book half earth
many of these smaller and poorer
countries there's no way i could say to
the Government of Laos fifty percent of
your country should be a should be a
national park Canada we have so much
empty land that for all these ridiculous
ideas and more they're viable the
stomachs that we do have space for bison
herds if we if if we want it if we want
to make it happen yeah actually is a
biologist thing obvious and um one of
the challenges that they always faced
with these international agreements
about climate change and things like
that is that because that you know and
it's a tragedy he'll always think you
know he wants to preserve the Amazon
more than anybody but but it is always
that challenge like how do you balance
human needs and and the need for
diversity and it's it's very challenging
I do think that eliminating animal
agriculture does help that a lot because
you know we're gonna still be cutting
down for us for palm oil but at least we
won't be wasting you know half the
Amazon for cattle future I I have a
question for you but I've an anecdote
about this that I think you'll relate to
and they don't then I'll ask my question
view I was going to ask you about what
utilitarian means to you it seems to be
meaningful to you person so I asked that
right after Tillis Antone um back when I
work at Starbucks so I have worked in a
grocery store I have worked in a
Starbucks some people think I grew up as
a millionaire I did not um but I but
I'll die a millionaire I guarantee
unlikely uh um but back when I was
working at Starbucks there was a young
woman and actually being clueless she
was romantically interested in me and
very briefly romantically involved with
me actually but in with this well we
were both young I'm anyway sorry she
wasn't sure have been six months younger
than I was we were the same age and
we're both young people time and um she
was really excited one day and she was
telling me about this service she was
gonna sign up for it to save the
rainforest and she said only a few words
about it but I was already then a
political realist than into my I guess I
wasn't yet a political science major ash
I had
I had we hadn't even got at that point
university but I heard her give her feel
about this wonderful charity she was
sent him to join and I said well just
from what you told me now cuz she was
almost verbatim repeating what she read
in the advertisement sent in our
application package I said you know I've
got to warn you they're probably gonna
write back to you asking do you have
weapons training do you have a good pair
of combat boots are you familiar the
type of work she's describing she was
using all of these euphemisms but if you
actually understood euphemisms this was
a paramilitary service trying to prevent
illegal logging and poaching and dealing
with armed men who were cutting in the
forest i think it was in Colombia I
could be misremembering i think it was
inclined right because i remember when i
was doing my undergraduate wait one sec
let me finish the antidote wait wait
wait let me finish because there's only
one more sense well over sense so the
and you know I told us and she
completely didn't believe me completely
dismissed I'd say and then maybe two or
three weeks later on the job I asked her
saying we're working at starbucks said
here oh so you know did you did you get
your reply from that service she was so
downcast she's looking down the table
she didn't want to look for you in the
eye and she said you were right you're
right a bit of it that that was exactly
what I bonus yen